>> Mike North: So
where we're going to next is Emmet.
And this leads up to our
first exercise here.
So we're looking at Emmet.md now.
Oop, I have and error, silly image paths.
We can fix that up here,
I think I'm one level too deep.
Yep, there we go.
I only ever learned this at a basic level.
But it is,
it is proven to be really useful.
And I'm just gonna show you
where we're going with this.
So I'm just gonna open
up a scratch pad here.
Sorry.
So what I've got, just ignore that
thing at the top for the moment.
Emmet basically allows us to
write abbreviations for things,
and then hit the Tab key, and
that abbreviation will get expanded out.
So for example,
if I wanted to say I wish to render a div,
they do something like this,
div tab and we've got a div, right?
So I don't have to write
the word div twice,
I don't have to do the open then a close
tag, already pretty interesting.
I can also use CSS like things, right?
Like a class, so I can say,
>> Mike North: .frontendmasters tab,
and I'll get a div with a class,
frontend masters.
So, when we get complicated here, say.
What I've created up here is,
>> Mike North: A more
elaborate expansion here.
And I'm just gonna expand
out what that looks like.
>> Mike North: So I have created an
unordered list with ten list items in it,
each of which has an img tag.
And you'll note where my cursor
is positioned right now.
It's sort of in the first
blank to fill in.
And as I hit Tab,
I'm actually gonna be able to sort of
cycle through all of these little blanks.
So the idea here is if you're to create
this HTML structure you'd have to do
a bunch of copying and pasting,
and like positioning your
cursor in just the right spot.
Or get really used to like advancing
your cursor into the position perfectly.
Here it's almost just like, let me
define the form I wish to fill out and
then let's fill in the form.
And it greatly reduces the number of key
strokes that you have to worry about.
So this is what we're gonna talk about,
this is Emmet.
>> Mike North: And the idea here as you
just saw, we can speed up repetitive tasks
by typing in some abbreviation and
hitting the Tab key.
This is available, it doesn't
matter if Code is your main editor,
it's available as a plug-in for
almost everything.
I've used it in Atom,
I've used it in Sublime,
I've used it in WebStorm.
And once you get used to these
things it works really easily and
you internalize it very quickly.
And one of the ways you can internalize
it quickly is just realize it's basically
the same way you describe
HTML in the CSS world, right?
Dot for classes.
So there are plugins for most editors.
It is built into Visual Studio code.
You do not need an extension to
add it to Visual Studio code.
It's already in there, and it's one of
these things that just sort of works.
In fact, it is the foundation for
a concept of code snippets,
where you can define your
own repetitive chunks of
code that might be unique to you as
a user or, your workspace, for example.
And Emmet is the basis for doing that,
you define your own little
custom Emmet completion.
If you're a React developer,
if you use React or
React like things such as Preact or
Inferno, this works in JSX as well.
So you can expand HTML
into React-friendly CSS.
Or you'll even get class name
instead of class because you
can't use class as a reserved
word in the JavaScript world.
>> Mike North: And for that matter you
can use it in like handlebars as well.
You'll just need to bring in
some handlebars snippets.
>> Mike North: So, the way you want to
think of this is, we use CSS selectors for
DOM generation.
And as we saw, the cursor kind of ends up
being in a really convenient place for
us to start filling in all of the gaps for
our list of grocery items
that we just generated.
That we could, those gaps are likely
to change on a per list item basis.
So we've gotten to the point
where we've extended it out and
then we can go about
whatever we need to do.
Some of this may look messy at first.
Keep in mind you don't need to worry about
Emmet readability because it's disposable.
Like you type it and
you hit Tab and it's gone.
So there's no, even if you're
the only one who understands it,
you will benefit from it, right?
Because you're transforming it into
something else, as opposed to other types
of mark-up for that mark-up is
long living in your document.
If that were for example, we had that
complicated string i typed in and
we saved that and like something
magically made HTML from that.
But the string was
committed into our code.
We probably want to worry
about the readability there.
So we already showed
how we could use a div.
We could apply a class here.
I do want to show you
one thing about this.
So you'll note we didn't
specify a tag name here.
By default you get a div, but there is
some sense of contextual awareness.
So, and it's not about the context
of where you expanding.
So, if I did like this, if I was inside a
span, and I had something in it like this.
It'll become a div.
But if I did something like this, span,
and then used this descendant selector,
you'll see that I get like
because I am saying I want
an element with this class,
to be outside this outerspan.
We're already in a world
of inline elements, and so
creates another inline element for us,
same with an unordered list,
>> Mike North: We get an li.
So there is some smart detection of,
what is your parent?
But it only looks at
the completion itself, right?
That's the only stuff
within that string matters.
It doesn't matter if there's
other text around it.
Emmet only operates on that little string
and replaces it with something else.
It has no knowledge of
what's going on around it.
>> Mike North: So just like with CSS,
we can use IDs as well with a hashtag.
And you see here we've got one tag
that has both an ID and a class on it.
You could also use .foo.bar
whatever to add multiple classes.
And again, in React this would not
be class, it would be a class name.
This is the React appropriate expansion.
Some tags end up having default attributes
that you sort of must implement.
An img tag doesn't really
make sense without a source.
And you're not making it accessible
unless you have an alt there.
So only a screen reader can
dictate to a vision impaired user.
So it will basically like give
you these to fill out by default.
So, similar in concept
to what we have in CSS.
There's a direct descendant selector and
a sibling selector.
I am likening this to CSS, so that we
can remember how these are treated.
But keep in mind,
what we're trying to do with CSS is very
specifically target one or more things.
We would say only this pen that's inside
this div that's inside the element of this
particular class.
Here we're looking to
generate a chunk of DOM.
So there's a slight conceptual difference
here in that we're trying to describe like
the structure of an object here.
Whereas in CSS we're trying to surgically
get down to a very specific thing and
only apply a style where
we intend to apply it.
So the descendant selector
here can be used to say,
I want to put stuff inside
an element that I'm generating.
And again here, we saw that we could
drop the li here, the context of already
being inside an unordered list would
give us that li by default anyway.
So we could just remove that piece.
So the sibling selector just basically
says I want these things to be
side by side by side.
>> Mike North: So
there's also this climb up operator.
And I don't use this at all.
If you look through my Emmet history for
like the past decade,
you would not find more than one or
two occurrences of this character.
And it was probably just
me playing with it, and
then having a disgusted look on my face.
So what's happening here?
Let's read left to right.
So we're,
I should not double click in these.
So we have a div, and
then a sibling div that follows it and
so that's this one here.
And then inside that second div,
we've got a paragraph with a span and
m next to it, so
that's this thing here on the third line.
And then basically we've got to
climb up to get out of that,
>> Mike North: Paragraph tag effectively.
So think of it as canceling this out,
this descendant selector thing.
And so we climb out and now we're back
inside the scope of this second div, and
we can put this block put element.
I don't use this, and I will show you why,
cuz we can use parenthesis.
Parenthesis makes sense to me,
it's just like math, right?
Where you can group some stuff together,
and
that is regarded as sort
of a single expression.
So in this case, we're able to create
exactly the same thing, but to my eye,
this is much easier to
reason your way through.
Or basically saying, I've gat two side
by side divs, inside the second one,
I've got the following.
First, a paragraph tag with a span and
siblings inside of it,
close parenthesis, and then next to that,
a whole thing, I've got a blockquote.
So I can read this much more easily it
makes sense a bit much more easily.
So I tend to never ever use
that climb up operator.
I do use this once in a while.
And what I'm showing you here, by the way,
this is much more complicated
than my typical use of Emmet.
You will see that as you start
experimenting with this,
a couple small, simple expansions
are way easier than trying to
craft the perfect thing that will
just dump out some complicated
structure perfectly on the first
expansion like it's not worth it.
In fact you'll end up basically
putting enough mental energy into
trying to think about what you want
to expand that you basically eat
up all the productivity
benefits of using this thing.
if you have to think too hard about like
exactly what incantation you have to
utter in order to make this stuff work,
to generate something of
significant complexity.
This is already at the point
where it's a little bit,
this is like giving questionable.
So, multiplication is
something that I do use, and
I typically only use it for lists.
You could use it for whatever but
I find that lists are where
this ends up shining the most.
And in this case, we're basically
saying for a given element,
we can say times 5, times n, right?
Any number of these.
And here we're gonna get col and
then five li's inside of it.
And then we could actually
keep going inside of this, and
that would basically say 5 li's, each of
which has the following inside of it, and
then you can continue on.
>> Mike North: So we can use these braces
to add text to the body of elements.
And I don't find that I use this,
but if you see it,
this is what it's trying to do.
This is where we're just
showing off like crazy.
See I've got a dollar sign here,
think of it that's like your
iteration variable within the for
loop that's creating this, and so we've
got one, two, three, four, five here.
Again, you'll be hard pressed to find
that you're using this all the time.
But it may be that someone
gets used to this and
finds an occasional place to use it.